- [Michael] After looking through all of these various
package types and steps, utilizing Spring Profiles,
tapping into metrics, deploying our web application
to both AWS and Azure,
including taking advantage of GitHub actions,
you might be wondering what's next?
Well, there's quite a bit.
Honestly, we've only just scratched the surface.
For example, you could take a deep dive
into GitHub's competitor GitLab
and learn how to build CI/CD pipelines
through GitLab's unique but similar way
for automating, and testing, and building,
and deploying of your applications to production.
Another widely used application server deployment stack
is the combination of Git with Jenkins.
Many organizations are still tooled to use Jenkins
for testing, building, and deploying of code
to various environments.
Jenkins, as well, is a very mature application platform
for handling these types of CI/CD pipelines.
Similarly, both AWS and Azure include something called
CodePipelines, which listen for push events
on repositories, and feature functionality
for pushing all sorts of package types
through the deployment in production.
And while we're speaking of AWS and Azure,
we've only scratched the surface in using
the various CLI facilities of these cloud server stacks.
For example, although we've used the EB CLI,
we've never even touched the AWS CLI, which is different,
and has a distinct purpose outside of the EB CLI,
which is for Elastic Beanstalk.
Likewise, with Azure, although we've used the Azure CLI
to perform some installs and configurations,
we could have used these also for cleaning up resources
and undeploying resource groups, applications,
containers, Docker images,
and a host of other server resources.
Both of these cloud platforms offer
so many other incredible useful tools
like functions and serverless code,
DNS management, load balancing,
storage, and authentication, and much more.
I want to encourage you to continue learning
about what these cloud services can offer
and how you might innovate using them.
Lastly, we've not even talked about
other cloud service providers
like Google Cloud services, Oracle Cloud,
or even Alibaba Cloud services.
All of these deserve some research and exploration.
You may never know which one is the best
for you and your organization.
Teaching this material has been a wonderful experience
for me, and I want to thank you for joining me
and learning so much about packaging and deploying
a Spring Boot application to AWS and Azure.
I hope to see you again for future courses, thank you.